.TH CSVALIGN 1 "12 January 2020"
.SH NAME
csvalign \- print csv rows with its columns aligned
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsvalign\fP [\-h] [\-n] [\-p \fIPADDING\fP] [\-w \fIWIDTHS\fP] [\-d \fIDELIM\fP] [\fIFILE\fP [\fIFILE\fP ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcsvalign\fP displays the comma\-separated value (csv) file \fIFILE\fP with its
columns aligned.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Output a usage message and exit.
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--number\fP
Show column numbers.
.TP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--multitable\fP
The file may contain more than one csv table, divided by an empty line.  The
second set of table is treated as though it were the start of a new csv file.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIPADDING\fP, \fB--padding\fP=\fIPADDING\fP
Use \fIPADDING\fP as the padding between the columns.  The default is two
spaces.
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIWIDTHS\fP, \fB--width\fP=\fIWIDTHS\fP
By default, \fBcsvalign\fP reads the entire csv file into memory to calculate
the width of each column before outputting the file.  To avoid reading the
contents of the file into memory first, the widths of the columns may be
manually specified using this option.

\fIWIDTHS\fP is a comma-separated list of integers.  A negative integer denotes
the width that is left aligned.  A positive intger is the width that is right
aligned.  The last integer in the list is the default width of columns after
the columns with the width specified.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
A set of characters used to guess the delimiter of a csv file.  The guesswork
happens when reading the first line of the first \fIFILE\fP, by testing each
character present in \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP for the character with the most
occurrence in the line.  If any of the characters occur the same number of
times (including zero), the earlier character in the variable is chosen.
If the environment variable is not set, it defaults to ',\\t|\\u0001'.
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP may include escape characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csvread(1), csvcut(1)
