.TH CSVCUT 1 "12 January 2020"
.SH NAME
csvcut \- extract columns and values from a comma\-separated value (csv) file(s).
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsvcut\fP [\-h] [\-f \fIFIELDS\fP] [\-d \fIDELIM\fP] [\fIFILE\fP [\fIFILE\fP ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcsvcut\fP extract columns and values from a comma\-separated value (csv)
file \fIFILE\fP.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIDELIM\fP, \fB--delim\fP=\fIDELIM\fP
Use \fIDELIM\fP as the value delimiter, where \fIDELIM\fP may be '\fBp\fP' for
the pipe (\fB|\fP), '\fBt\fP' for the tab (\fB\\t\fP), '\fBa\fP' for the SOH
(ASCII 1), or other string literal of one or more characters and Python string
escape sequences.  \fIDELIM\fP may include escape characters.  By default the
delimiter is guessed from the characters in the \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP environment
variable.
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIFIELDS\fP, \fB--fields\fP=\fIFIELDS\fP
\fIFIELDS\fP is a comma-separated list of columns or values to select from the
csv file.  See \fBSelector Format\fP below on how to select column(s) or
value(s).
.TP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--multitable\fP
The file may contain more than one csv table, divided by an empty line.  The
second set of table is treated as though it were the start of a new csv file.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--inverse\fP
Extract non-matching fields only.
.SS Selector Format
.TP
\fBINT\fP
An integer select the column by its number.  The leftmost column is 1.
.TP
\fBINT1-[INT2]\fP
Select all columns between \fBINT1\fP and \fBINT2\fP, inclusive.  If \fBINT2\fP
is omitted all columns from \fBINT1\fP to the last column are selected.
.TP
\fB[=]STRING\fP
Select the column by its name.  The string may be prefixed by the equal sign
(\fB=\fP) to avoid other interpretations.
.TP
\fB/REGEX/[i]\fP
Select all columns whose name matches the regular expression \fBREGEX\fP.  The
\fBi\fP modifier forces case-insensitive match.
.TP
\fB~/REGEX/[i]\fP
Select all field values matching the regular expression \fBREGEX\fP.  The
\fBi\fP modifier forces case-insensitive match.
.TP
\fB-\fP
Select all fields that have not already been selected.
.TP
No selector may include the comma character.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
A set of characters used to guess the delimiter of a csv file.  The guesswork
happens when reading the first line of the first \fIFILE\fP, by testing each
character present in \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP for the character with the most
occurrence in the line.  If any of the characters occur the same number of
times (including zero), the earlier character in the variable is chosen.
If the environment variable is not set, it defaults to ',\\t|\\u0001'.
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP may include escape characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csvread(1), csvalign(1), csvsql(1), csvcsv(1)
