.TH CSVCSV 1 "30 January 2020"
.SH NAME
csvcsv \- convert a csv file from one variant to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsvcsv\fP [\-h] [\-a] [\-m] [\-q] [\-s] [\-r] [\-d DELIM] [\-o DELIM] [\fIFILE\fP [\fIFILE\fP ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcsvcsv\fP converts a comma\-separated value (csv) file \fIFILE\fP from one
variant to another.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Output a usage message and exit.
.TP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--autoquote\fP
Quote all non-numeric values.
.TP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--minquote\fP
Minimally quote all field values. This is the default.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quote\fP
Quote all field values.
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--strip\fP
Strip quotes from all field values.
.TP
\fB-r\fP, \fB--raw\fP
Preserve the same quoting as the input.
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIDELIM\fP, \fB--delim\fP=\fIDELIM\fP
Use \fIDELIM\fP as the value delimiter of input FILEs, where \fIDELIM\fP may be
'\fBp\fP' for the pipe (\fB|\fP), '\fBt\fP' for the tab (\fB\\t\fP), '\fBa\fP'
for the SOH (ASCII 1), or other string literal of one or more characters and
Python string escape sequences.  \fIDELIM\fP may include escape characters.  By
default the delimiter is guessed from the characters in the \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
environment variable.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIDELIM\fP, \fB--outdelim\fP=\fIDELIM\fP
Use DELIM as the delimiter of the output.  The default is to use the same
delimiter as the input.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
A set of characters used to guess the delimiter of a csv file.  The guesswork
happens when reading the first line of the first \fIFILE\fP, by testing each
character present in \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP for the character with the most
occurrence in the line.  If any of the characters occur the same number of
times (including zero), the earlier character in the variable is chosen.
If the environment variable is not set, it defaults to ',\\t|\\u0001'.
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP may include escape characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csvread(1), csvcut(1), csvalign(1), csvsql(1)
