.TH CSVJSON 1 "5 October 2025"
.SH NAME
csvjson \- convert csv to json
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsvjson\fP [\-d \fIDELIM\fP] [\-f] [\-g] [\-m] [\-n] [\-s] [\-t \fILIB\fP] [\fIFILE\fP [\fIFILE\fP ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcsvjson\fP converts a comma\-separated value (csv) file \fIFILE\fP to json
format.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIDELIM\fP, \fB--delim\fP=\fIDELIM\fP
Use \fIDELIM\fP as the value delimiter, where \fIDELIM\fP may be '\fBp\fP' for
the pipe (\fB|\fP), '\fBt\fP' for the tab (\fB\\t\fP), '\fBa\fP' for the SOH
(ASCII 1), or other string literal of one or more characters and Python string
escape sequences.  \fIDELIM\fP may include escape characters.  By default the
delimiter is guessed from the characters in the \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP environment
variable.
.TP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--multitable\fP
The file may contain more than one csv table, divided by an empty line.  The
second set of table is treated as though it were the start of a new csv file.
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--no-header\fP
The file contains no header.  The values are numbered by their column positions
instead.
.TP
\fB-S\fP, \fB--all-string\fP
Treat all fields as string.
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--strip-quotes\fP
Strip quotes from field values.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fILIB\fP, \fB--translator\fP=\fILIB\fP
Use the plugin library \fILIB\fP to preprocess the values before display.
\fILIB\fP may be the full path to the library without the .py suffix, or it may
just be the library name in which case \fBCSV_PLUGINS_PATH\fP is searched for
the library.
.TP
\fB-e\fP \fIENCODING\fP, \fB--encoding\fP=\fIENCODING\fP
Use \fIENCODING\fP encoding to read \fIFILE\fP.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
Display the version and exit.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
A set of characters used to guess the delimiter of a csv file.  The guesswork
happens when reading the first line of the first \fIFILE\fP, by testing each
character present in \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP for the character with the most
occurrence in the line.  If any of the characters occur the same number of
times (including zero), the earlier character in the variable is chosen.
If the environment variable is not set, it defaults to ',\\t|\\u0001'.
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP may include escape characters.
.TP
\fBCSV_PLUGINS_PATH\fP
A colon-separated list of directories in which the plugin library is searched.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csvalign(1), csvcut(1), csvgrep(1), cgrep(1), csvsql(1), csvcsv(1), csvread(1)
