.TH CSVREAD 1 "8 October 2018"
.SH NAME
csvread \- print csv rows in a more human\-readable format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsvread\fP [\-h] [\-n] [\-s] [\-d \fIDELIM\fP] [\-t \fILIB\fP] [\fIFILE\fP [\fIFILE\fP ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcsvread\fP displays a comma\-separated value (csv) file \fIFILE\fP in a more
readable format.  It prints one value per line, prefixed by the column name.
An empty line is printed between the records to serve as the record separator.

This purpose of this layout is to make it easier to associate each value with
its column.  The layout can also be used to grep for a specific column or
columns.  Its output can be piped to cgrep(1) to look for records containing a
value in a specific column.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Output a usage message and exit.
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--no-header\fP
The file contains no header.  The values are numbered by their column positions
instead.
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--strip-quotes\fP
Strip quotes from field values.
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIDELIM\fP, \fB--delim\fP=\fIDELIM\fP
Use \fIDELIM\fP as the value delimiter, where \fIDELIM\fP may be '\fBp\fP' for
the pipe (\fB|\fP), '\fBt\fP' for the tab (\fB\\t\fP), '\fBa\fP' for the SOH
(ASCII 1), or other string literal of one or more characters and Python string
escape sequences.  \fIDELIM\fP may include escape characters.  By default the
delimiter is guessed from the characters in the \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP environment
variable.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fILIB\fP, \fB--translator\fP=\fILIB\fP
Use the plugin library \fILIB\fP to preprocess the values before display.
\fILIB\fP may be the full path to the library without the .py suffix, or it may
just be the library name in which case \fBCSV_PLUGINS_PATH\fP is searched for
the library.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
A set of characters used to guess the delimiter of a csv file.  The guesswork
happens when reading the first line of the first \fIFILE\fP, by testing each
character present in \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP for the character with the most
occurrence in the line.  If any of the characters occur the same number of
times (including zero), the earlier character in the variable is chosen.
If the environment variable is not set, it defaults to ',\\t|\\u0001'.
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP may include escape characters.
.TP
\fBCSV_PLUGINS_PATH\fP
A colon-separated list of directories in which the plugin library is searched.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csvalign(1), csvcut(1), cgrep(1)
