.TH CSVSQL 1 "1 February 2020"
.SH NAME
csvsql \- query one or more csv files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsvsql\fP [\-h] [\-c \fISQL\fP] [\-d \fIDELIM\fP] [\fIFILE\fP [-a TABLE] [\fIFILE\fP [-a TABLE] ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcsvsql\fP load one or more csv files \fIFILE\fP into memory as database
tables that can be queried or manipulated using \fISQL\fP.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Output a usage message and exit.
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fITABLE\fP, \fB--as\fP=\fITABLE\fP
Load the preceding or following \fIFILE\fP into \fITABLE\fP.  By default,
\fIFILE\fP is loaded into the table whose name is same as the basename of the
\fIFILE\fP without the extension.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fISQL\fP, \fB--command\fP=\fISQL\fP
\fISQL\fP command to execute.  May be specified more than once to execute more
than one SQL command.  If omitted, csvsql is started in interactive mode.
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIDELIM\fP, \fB--delim\fP=\fIDELIM\fP
Use \fIDELIM\fP as the value delimiter of input FILEs, where \fIDELIM\fP may be
'\fBp\fP' for the pipe (\fB|\fP), '\fBt\fP' for the tab (\fB\\t\fP), '\fBa\fP'
for the SOH (ASCII 1), or other string literal of one or more characters and
Python string escape sequences.  \fIDELIM\fP may include escape characters.  By
default the delimiter is guessed from the characters in the \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
environment variable.
.TP
\fB-e\fP \fIENCODING\fP, \fB--encoding\fP=\fIENCODING\fP
Use \fIENCODING\fP encoding to read \fIFILE\fP.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
Display the version and exit.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP
A set of characters used to guess the delimiter of a csv file.  The guesswork
happens when reading the first line of the first \fIFILE\fP, by testing each
character present in \fBCSV_DELIMS\fP for the character with the most
occurrence in the line.  If any of the characters occur the same number of
times (including zero), the earlier character in the variable is chosen.
If the environment variable is not set, it defaults to ',\\t|\\u0001'.
\fBCSV_DELIMS\fP may include escape characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
csvread(1), csvcut(1), csvgrep(1), csvalign(1), csvcsv(1)
